---
layout: post
title: "Running your own OrthoFinder analysis"
author: "David Emms"
categories: orthofinder_tutorials
tags: [documentation]
#fig_image: Figure3_ResultsData.png
#fig_caption: "Example figure to show the data generated by an OrthoFinder run"
---

Once you've downloaded OrthoFinder and checked you can run it on the Example Dataset then you're ready to run your own analysis!

## Plan for this tutorial
In this tutorial we're going to download the proteomes for the species we want to analyse and run OrthoFinder on those species. In the next tutorial we'll dive into the results. I downloaded OrthoFinder to a directory called '/home/david/orthofinder-tutorial/', if you downloaded it to somewhere else then change the paths in the commands as appropriate.

## Downloading proteomes for our species. 
In this tutorial we're going to perform a phylogenomic analysis across a set of model species: mouse, human, frog, zebrafish, fruit fly and *Caenorhabditis elegans*. For chosing the species to include in your own analysis see the post [Getting the most from your OrthoFinder analysis](/orthofinder_tutorials/geting-the-most-from-your-orthofinder-analysis.html).

1. Somewhere on your computer, create a folder called "proteomes". It's best if there aren't any spaces in the path for this folder (e.g. "/home/david/orthofinder-tutorial/proteomes/" and not "/home/david/orthofinder tutorial/proteomes/").

2. Go to [https://www.ensembl.org/](). Click on "Human" under "Favourite genomes".

3. On the right hand side, under "Gene annotation" click "Download FASTA", click on the "pep" folder and then download the file "Homo_sapiens.GRCh38.pep.all.fa.gz" to the folder you created.
 
4. Go back to the Ensembl main page and repeat for Mouse, Zebrafish, Tropical clawed frog (*Xenopus tropicalis*, under 'Amphibians'), *Drosophila melanogaster" and *C. elegans*. If the is a choice of files, chose the '.pep.all.fa.gz' file. 

5. Open a terminal and navigate to the directory that you downloaded the files to. The files are all compressesed (they end in '.gz'), decompress them all using the command `gunzip *.gz`.
